---
layout: post
title: "10. 2.1 MY HOMETOWN"
date: "2022-12-12"
author: "r3kind1e"
header-img: "img/post-bg-Penetration Testing Student.png"
catalog:    true
tags: 
    - IELTS
---

# 10. 2.1 MY HOMETOWN
## Tell me about your home town (Common Question)
A very common topic in the exam is talking about your hometown.

### IDEAS
You could talk about:
* Name
* Location
* Size
* Importance

Describe it as much as possible

Give lots of opinions and ideas

### SAMPLE ANSWER
My hometown is Paris in France. I don't know if you know much about Paris. But it's the capital of France. And it's a really bustling city. There are countless places to eat. If you are a foodie, if you love food, you can choose from a wealth of different restaurants, cafes and bars. Paris is really known for its famous food. But if you're interested in culture. We have lots of different museums, galleries, theatres. If you're culture vulture, you'll really love Paris. Especially if you love going to the opera or the theatre. Paris is also famous for sporting and music events. If you wanted to go and watch the football, you could go and see Paris Saint Germain. Or if you wanted to listen to some live music. We have lots of cafes that play live jazz music in my city.

|单词|词性|意思|
|---|---|---|
|bustling|adjective|熙熙攘攘的；热闹的|
|foodie|noun [ C ]|美食家|
|culture vulture|noun [ C ]|someone who is very interested in music, art, theater, etc.:|
|vibrant|adjective|活跃的；精力充沛的；热情洋溢的|

### VOCABULARY IDEAS
Bustling

That means that it's really busy and energetic

Vibrant

There are countless = There are many

Grab a bite to eat = go and eat some food

So I could say to my friend "Let's grab a bite to eat"

If I were you, I would visit Paris in the next ten years.

### More ideas for large cities:
* Fast-paced
* Cosmopolitan
* Plenty of nightlife
* Good transport network
* Cost of living

It's a fast-paced city.

It's a cosmopolitan city.

|单词|词性|意思|
|---|---|---|
|cosmopolitan|adjective|来自世界各地的；国际大都会的；世界性的|

There is plenty of night life

It has good transport network

The cost of living is high

### More ideas for small cities:
* Relaxed atmosphere
* Good quality of life
* A bit boring
* Peaceful
* Easy to get around

It has a relaxed atmosphere.

It has a good quality of life.

It's a bit boring. There's not much to do.

It's a peaceful place to live.

It's easy to get around.

### What is your hometown known for? (Common Question)
And that simply means what is it famous for?

### IDEAS
* Why it is famous
* What are the main industries (in the city)?
* Famous stories (Are there any famous stories about your city?)

### SAMPLE ANSWER
Paris is really famous for its culture. As I mentioned, we have lots of different museums and galleries. We also have many theatres too. So whatever your taste, you will definitely find something that you enjoy.

### Is it easy to get around your hometown? (Common Question)
And that simply means does your city have a good transport network?

### SAMPLE ANSWER
Well, like most cities. Paris has many different transport options. The most common is the metro, which is a really cheap and efficient way to get around the city. Trains run throughout the day and night. But if you're in a rush. You may want to take an Uber. But I can't always guarantee that will be quicker than the Metro. Because Paris is notorious for its traffic jams.

### REVIEW
* To get around the city
* If you're in a rush
* You are -> you're
* Notorious
* Fluent

Did you notice that I contracted you are and it becomes you're. If you're in a rush.

In the exam, you'll get the most marks if you are able to expand your answer. And that means talk a lot about the topic that you've been asked about. So in this case, I spoke a lot about Paris. What you can do there. The type of transport it has. Maybe a few different transport options. So make sure you talk a lot and in detail.

### Question: What's the best thing about living in your home town?


