---
layout: post
title: "5. 1.3 INFLUENCERS and SOCIAL MEDIA"
date: "2022-12-12"
author: "r3kind1e"
header-img: "img/post-bg-Penetration Testing Student.png"
catalog:    true
tags: 
    - IELTS
---

# 5. 1.3 INFLUENCERS and SOCIAL MEDIA
## Speaking Exam Part 3
As you know, part 3 is a continuation of part 2. It will always be on the same topic. And it's more of a discussion so you need to think of your own arguments. In part 2 yesterday we talked about somebody who you admire.

## People who influence others （Celebrities people on social media.）
In part 3 the examiner might ask you about people who influence other people, may be on social media, on TV or films.

## RECENT QUESTIONS
1. Do people on social media have too much influence nowadays?
2. Do you know any examples where people admire somebody for the wrong reasons?

Some of these questions are quite tricky, so you need to have lots of ideas. Tricky just means very difficult.

## PAUSE AND PREPARE
### Question 1: Do people on social media have too much influence nowadays?
**Followers**

People who follow a person or a brand.

**Influencers**

People with many followers on social media.

**Fake News**

Used to influence people, even if the facts are not true.

Remember that part 3 of the exam is not only one question. There will be a number of questions. So here is another question which is very common in the exam.

### Question 2: Do you know any examples where people admire somebody for the wrong reasons?
You could talk about sports people or celebrities who are famous or even scandals.

**Scandals**

For example, to have an affair.

scandal noun [ C or U ] 丑行；丑闻；震惊；反感

It could be that they are married and have an affair.

### Sample Answer
As far as I'm concerned, social media can sometimes be too powerful. Social media has no regulation. And that means that people who have many followers or who are influencers, they can spread fake news. A good example of this is "Flat Earthers". "Flat Earthers" are a group of people who use social media to create videos. And they claim that the earth is flat and not round. So thery are responsible for spreading fake news. Do you believe the "Flat Earthers"?

**REVIEW**

* Good vocabulary
* Fake news
* They are responsible for...

* Supported answer
* Flat earthers

**PRONUNCIATION HELP**

* Social Media
* To influence / influencer

**VOCABULARY IDEAS**

**Susceptible**: Somebody is easily influenced.

In this case, it means that somebody is easily influenced or changed.

susceptible adjective (INFLUENCED)

easily influenced or harmed by something

易受影响的，易受伤害的

Example sentence:

"Young people are susceptible to the influnce of social media."

**Spread fake news**

Example sentence:

"Social media is a place where people can spread fake news."

**Play a prominent role**

"Prominent" means important of large

Example sentence:

"Social media and influencers play a prominent role in today's society."

### TEACHING TIME
**New phrases and techniques**

**'Filler' phrases:**

* Help to make your sentences longer.
* Make speech sound more fluent.
* Buy more time.

**To tell you the truth...**

Example sentence:

"To tell you the truth, I haven't really thought about that."

**To be perfectly honest...**

Example sentence:

"To be perfectly honest, that's the opposite of what I think."

**As far as I'm concerned...**

Example sentence:

"As far as I'm concerned, celebrities have too much influence nowadays."

**As a matter of fact...**

"As a matter of fact, I was thinking about this topic just last week."

These filler phrases will make you sound more natural. And they will help with the fluency mark in your exam. 

### SUMMARY
So, in summary, Part 3 of the IELTS speaking exam is very difficult. You have to think of lots of your own opinions and arguments.

You will probably know that in the exam, 25 percent of your mark comes from pronunciation. But 25 percent also comes from grammar. And 25 percent comes from vocabulary.



